So, we've used the URLClassLoader,
which is one of the classes that comes part of the Java virtual machine, the
JVM. We'll now take a look at writing our own classloader,
something that doesn't rely on the URLClassLoader. So
when we write our own classloader, there's several things we have to think about.
Our classloader will not load all the classes that the application asks for.
It will delegate it to other classloaders.
So by the system classloader here in quotes,
I mean it will delegate to things like the application classloader, that'll
then delegate to the extensions classloader, that will then delegate up to the
Bootstrap classloader. When we delegate the parent classloader, if it can't
load the class, it will throw an exception.
It'll throw a ClassNotFoundException.
Now a classloader has to handle that exception.
When we find a ClassNotFoundException,
our classloader will then look in the database, so we can
configure the classloader with a connection string that
points to the database we want to use,
and then the classloader will use a particular
structural database, a specific table,
and that table will contain the actual bytes that make up the class, so we load
in those bytes into memory. Once we load the bytes into memory, we then use the
built‑in ClassLoader class's defineClass method.
So we pass the defineClass a byte array, and that byte array
contains the byte code of the class that we are trying to define.
The example we create will use SQL Server.
I'll provide scripts as part of the code to allow you to insert a class file
into the database and to show you the actual command line that we need to run
the Java application if you are using SQL Server.
So the code we have here is similar to the code from the previous demonstration,
except that now we have our own SQL Server classloader,
to which we pass a connection string, and that's going to load the class for me.
And in this case,
we're asking it for a class by name, so we're asking it for this
com.pluralsight.Quote class. And then once that class has being loaded,
we create a newInstance and cast that to the IQuote
and then print out getQuote again.
This class is loaded into SQL Server, and here's the table.
We have a table called Classes inside a database called
ClassLoading, and this is the actual class file in the
table, and that starts with 0xCAFEBABE,
which is a signature that's the start of all Java class files, and
the name we give it here is com.pluralsight.Quote.
In this demonstration, we'll write the SQL Server classloader, so
the code is here. So we'll start with a base class,
SqlServerClassLoader, that extends classloader.
And this has a couple constructors,
one to which we can pass the parent class loader and the connection string or
one to which we simply pass the connection string, this thing called
ClassLoader.getSystemClassLoader to set the parent classloader,
and it's this classloader that we'll delegate to.
So we'll need a method to get the binary data from the database,
and that method is a JDBC method.
I won't go into details here, but we create a connection.
We create a prepared statement to get the class data from the classes table
with a specific class name when we load that data as a blob,
so as a binary large object on.
And then take that blob,
extract the bytes from it, and save this into a byte array,
and return that byte array to the caller.
So to make this our classloader,
we need to override the findClass method. So findClass takes
the name of the class and returns a class object, so it
returns something of type Class.
This method will call loadClassFromDatabase, and if
you can find the class from there, then return that class.
Remember that the first thing this method does is delegate to its
parents, so we'll call our parent.loadClass method.
If that fails to load the class, then that will throw a ClassNotFoundException.
And from here, we need to return the class that's being loaded.
So if we get a ClassNotFoundException,
it's now down to s to try and load the class. We need to make two method calls.
We'll call loadClassFromDatabase, passing in the name of the class.
If that succeeds,
that will return as a byte array, and then we can
call defineClass on that byte array.
We need to wrap these in a try catch.
And if we catch SQLException,
then throw a new ClassNotFoundException, passing in the
SQLException that caused the error in the first place.
And with that code in place,
we should now be able to load a class from the database.
The code for running this app is slightly more complex than normal.
We have to specify a Java library path here that points at the
DLL that SQL Server JDBC driver uses to provide authentication
when we have to specify, as part of our classpath, the path to
the SQL Server JDBC driver.
Apart from that, it's the same.
We have the Interfaces.jar, we have a client library that contains the
quote interface, and then we'll run com.mantiso.Main.
So from a command prompt, if I simply do run,
run the application,
which will load the Quote class from the database, cast it to be of type IQuote,
call getMessage, and print the message on the screen. To hopefully
prove that this is doing the correct thing, let's change the name of
the class here from com.pluralsight.Quote to com.pluralsight.Quota,
again, build the application.
So if we run the code again, we now end up with a ClassNotFoundException here.
And this is coming from the loadClassFromDatabase call, so
loadClassFromDatabase can't find the class. That that throws the ClassNotFoundException, and that's bubbled back up into our code.